We can enable CloudFront to create log files that contain detailed
information about every user request that CloudFront receives.
These access logs are available for both web and streaming distribution types.
If you enable logging,
you also specify the S3 bucket that you want CloudFront to save files in.
This is all done while you're creating a distribution or from
the Distribution Settings tab later on.
Since we already have our distribution for our website,
let's go ahead and add logging now.
From within the CloudFront service console, open up our distribution settings.
While on the General tab, click Edit.
Please scroll to the end of the configuration options,
there you will find Logging.
Click the On option.
After clicking on,
the bucket for logs and log prefix options just became available for editing.
In bucket for logs,
enter the bucket name which you would like to store your logs in.
I've already created an S3 bucket for this purpose,
which is called the event-logs.
I like to separate my logs by including prefixes for each
service I have logging to my S3 bucket.
So in the bucket for logs field, I'll add the event-logs bucket,
and for log prefix, I'll use CloudFront/distribution id/.
That way my logs are logically organized.
So if I look in the bucket for CloudFront logs,
then look in the CloudFront prefix,
there I'll find a folder that matches my distributions ID.
Within that folder, that's where I can find all my logs.
So now click Yes, Edit to deploy this config to CloudFront.
Once this is deployed,
CloudFront will start delivering access logs in the W3C
extended log file format to my bucket.
Logging works in the following way.
A viewer request content using the URLs associated with the distribution.
CloudFront routes each request to the appropriate edge location.
CloudFront writes data about each request to a log
file specific to that distribution.
CloudFront periodically saves the log file for that distribution
into the S3 bucket specified when enabling logging.
CloudFront then starts saving information about
subsequent requests in a new log file.
And each entry in a log file gives detail about a single request.
So a few things to know about the logs,
they are written in W3C extended log file format,
they contain tab-separated values,
and records are not necessarily in chronological order.
All spaces and non-standard characters are substituted with URL encoded
equivalents and every file begins with two header lines.
The first one is file format version,
the second one lists all of the fields included in each record.
Every log entry contains the following 26 fields.
Every record begins with the date that the request occurred.
Next is the time that the request occurred and both
the date and time are in UTC.
Edge location is a three-letter plus random number identifier
of the edge cache that handled the request.
Bytes refers to the total number of bytes that CloudFront
served to the viewer including headers.
IP is the real IP of the requester.
This field is the verb that was used during the request,
which is get, post, put, delete.
This host field is the domain name of the distribution.
This could be the domain name that's generated by
CloudFront when it was created or a CNAME or alias that
you've attached to the distribution.
URI stem matches the path that was included in the request.
The status is the status response code, so 200, 300, 400, 500s.
Refer refers to the domain name that originated the request.
So if somebody clicked on the link from a Google search engine result page,
that would probably be from Google or somebody's Facebook
feed or Twitter that would show up as that.
CloudFront reads the URI stem and query strings as two different items.
The query string is what is stored here in this field,
and if you enable cookie logging from your distribution settings,
then the full value of the cookie is stored in this value.
When your request hits the edge cache,
CloudFront has to decide whether it has it in its local cache,
which would mean hit.
If it doesn't have it and it has to reach out to origin,
then that would be a miss.
Those values are stored under edge result type.
Every single request that hits the edge cache is given a unique identifier,
that's your edge request id.
Host-header stores the value of any host header sent with the request.
Protocol lets us know whether the request was an HTTP or an HTTPS request.
This bytes field is different from the earlier one because
this is the total bytes of the request received by the
edge cache from the requester.
CloudFront measures the time between when an edge cache receives the request
and when CloudFront has fully responded to the requester.
Forwarded-for stores the IP address if the request came through a proxy.
This protocol field stores the version of the SSL or
TLS that was used during the request.
And cipher lists the cipher set used to negotiate the request.
This is how CloudFront classified the response
before returning it to the viewer.
Protocol-version refers to the version of HTTP used so HTTP 1.1, 2.0.
Status shows status performance of any encrypted fields.
And last, but not least,
encrypted-fields list the total number of encrypted fields sent to the origin.
Once logs have been flowing into your S3 bucket,
you can download the log file in order to review it.
Logs use the following naming convention.
There are two sides to this name, the elements defined by the admin,
which are the bucket name and the prefix,
the rest are defined by AWS.
Okay, so when reviewing log files,
it can become quite tedious to review them one by one.
It's better to ship these files into some sort of tool which you can use
to query all or a subset of these logs all at once.
You can keep your logs within S3 and use a service like Amazon Athena.
Athena is an interactive query service that makes it easy to analyze
data from your S3 bucket using standard SQL queries.
It's serverless so there is no infrastructure to manage and you
really you only pay for the queries that you run.
If you already have an Elasticsearch database,
you can ship your logs to that as well.
The only difference is that Elasticsearch can adjust directly from S3,
so you would need to set up a lambda function to get your files,
unzip them, and transform them to just to send them into Elasticsearch.
Well, I think we have a good handle on logging now.
CloudFront is configured to log to our S3 bucket and you should have
a decent understanding of how logs are delivered,
plus after ready through a log entry, you can see how much detail is provided. Let's move on to monitoring and alerting.